makehistory(8)	    InterNetNews Documentation	   makehistory(8)



NAME
       makehistory - Initialize or rebuild INN history database

SYNOPSIS
       makehistory [-abeFIOx] [-f filename] [-l count] [-T
       tmpdir]

DESCRIPTION
       makehistory rebuilds the history(5) text file, which con-
       tains a list of message IDs of articles already seen by
       the server.  It can also be used to rebuild the overview
       database.  Note that the dbz(3) indexes for the history
       file are rebuilt by makedbz(8), not by makehistory as in
       earlier versions of INN.

       The default name of the history text file is pathdb/his-
       tory; to specify a different name, use the -f flag.

       By default, makehistory will scan the entire spool, using
       the storage manager, and write a history line for every
       article.  To also generate overview information, use the
       -O flag.

       WARNING: If you're trying to rebuild the overview
       database, be sure to delete or zero out the existing
       database before you start for the best results.	Other-
       wise, you may end up with problems like out-of-order
       overview entries, excessively large overview buffers, and
       the like.

OPTIONS
       -a  Append to the history file rather than generating a
	   new one.  If you append to the main history file, make
	   sure innd(8) is throttled or not running or you can
	   corrupt the history.

       -b  Delete any messages found in the spool that do not
	   have valid Message-ID headers in them.

       -e  Compute Bytes headers which is used for overview data.
	   This option is valid only if -O flag is specified and
	   overview.fmt includes `Bytes:'.

       -f filename
	   Rather than writing directly to pathdb/history,
	   instead write to filename.

       -F  Fork a separate process to flush overview data to disk
	   rather than doing it directly.  The advantage of this
	   is that it allows makehistory to continue to collect
	   more data from the spool while the first batch of data
	   is being written to the overview database.  The disad-
	   vantage is that up to twice as much temporary disk
	   space will be used for the generated overview data.
	   This option only makes sense in combination with -O.
	   With `buffindexed', the `overchan' program is invoked
	   to write overview.

       -I  Don't store overview data for articles numbered lower
	   than the lowest article number in active(5).  This is
	   useful if there are old articles on disk for whatever
	   reason that shouldn't be available to readers or put
	   into the overview database.

       -l count
	   This option specifies how many articles to process
	   before writing the accumulated overview information
	   out to the overview database.  The default is `10000'.
	   Since overview write performance is faster with sorted
	   data, each "batch" gets sorted.  Increasing the batch
	   size with this option may further improve write per-
	   formance, at the cost of longer sort times.	Also,
	   temporary space will be needed to store the overview
	   batches.  At a rough estimate, about 300 * count bytes
	   of temporary space will be required (not counting temp
	   files created by sort(1)).  See the description of the
	   -T option for how to specify the temporary storage
	   location.  This option has no effect with `buffind-
	   exed', because `buffindexed' does not need sorted
	   overview and no batching is done.

       -O  Create the overview database as well as the history
	   file.  Overview information is only required if the
	   server supports readers; it is not needed for a tran-
	   sit-only server.  If you are using the `buffindexed'
	   overview storage method, erase all of your overview
	   buffers before running makehistory with -O.

       -T tmpdir
	   If -O is given, makehistory needs a location to write
	   temporary overview data.  By default, it uses pathtmp,
	   set in inn.conf(5), but if this option is given, the
	   provided tmpdir is used instead.  This is also used
	   for temporary files created by sort(1) (which is
	   invoked in the process of writing overview information
	   since sorted overview information writes faster).  By
	   default, sort usually uses /var/tmp; see the man page
	   for sort on your system to be sure.

       -x  If this option is given, makehistory won't write out
	   history file entries.  This is useful mostly for
	   building overview without generating a new history
	   file.

EXAMPLES
       Here's a typical example of rebuilding the entire history
       and overview database, removing broken articles in the
       news spool.  This uses the default temporary file loca-
       tions and should be done while innd isn't running or is
       throttled.

	   makehistory -b -f history.n -O -l 30000 -I

       This will rebuild the overview (if using `buffindexed',
       erase the existing overview buffers before running this
       command) and leave a new history file in history.n in
       pathdb.	To preserve all of the history entries from the
       old history file that correspond to rejected articles or
       expired articles, use:

	   cd /usr/local/news/db
	   awk 'NF == 2 { print }' < history >> history.n

       (replacing the path with your pathdb, if it isn't the
       default).  Then look over the new history file for prob-
       lems and run:

	   makedbz -s `wc -l < history` -f history.n

       Then rename all of the files matching `history.n.*' to
       `history.*', replacing the current history database and
       indexes.  After that, it's safe to unthrottle innd.

       For a simpler example:

	   makehistory -b -f history.n -I -O

       will scan the spool, removing broken articles and generat-
       ing history and overview entries for articles missing from
       history.

       To just rebuild overview:

	   makehistory -O -x -F


FILES
       inn.conf
	   Read for pathdb and pathtmp.

       pathdb/history
	   This is the default output file for makehistory.

       pathtmp
	   Where temporary files are written unless -T is given.

HISTORY
       Originally written by Rich $alz <rsalz@uunet.uu.net> for
       InterNetNews and updated by various other people since.

       $Id: makehistory.8,v 1.26.2.5 2000/08/09 22:26:55 kondou
       Exp $

SEE ALSO
       dbz(3), active(5), history(5), inn.conf(5), ctlinnd(8),
       innd(8), makedbz(8).



3rd Berkeley Distribution    INN 2.3		   makehistory(8)
